# My Markdown

## Sept 29
## Q1
You are given an array of integers a. A new array b is generated by rearranging the elements of a in the following way:

b[0] is equal to a[0];
b[1] is equal to the last element of a;
b[2] is equal to a[1];
b[3] is equal to the second-last element of a;
b[4] is equal to a[2];
b[5] is equal to the third-last element of a;
and so on.
Your task is to determine whether the new array b is sorted in strictly ascending order or not.

Here is how the process of generating the new array b works:

## Q2

Given an array of positive integers a, your task is to calculate the sum of every possible a[i] ∘ a[j], where a[i] ∘ a[j] is the concatenation of the string representations of a[i] and a[j] respectively.

Example

For a = [10, 2], the output should be solution(a) = 1344.

a[0] ∘ a[0] = 10 ∘ 10 = 1010,
a[0] ∘ a[1] = 10 ∘ 2 = 102,
a[1] ∘ a[0] = 2 ∘ 10 = 210,
a[1] ∘ a[1] = 2 ∘ 2 = 22.//	var sum int64 = 4




## Oct 6

Q1
You are given two strings - pattern and source. The first string pattern contains only the symbols 0 and 1, and the second string source contains only lowercase English letters.

Let's say that pattern matches a substring source[l..r] of source if the following three conditions are met:

they have equal length,
for each 0 in pattern the corresponding letter in the substring is a vowel,
for each 1 in pattern the corresponding letter is a consonant.
Your task is to calculate the number of substrings of source that match pattern.

Note: In this task we define the vowels as 'a', 'e', 'i', 'o', 'u', and 'y'. All other letters are consonants.


Q2
A sawtooth sequence is a sequence of numbers that alternate between increasing and decreasing. In other words, each element is either strictly greater than its neighbouring elements or strictly less than its neighbouring elements.

Given an array of integers arr, your task is to count the number of contiguous subarrays that represent a sawtooth sequence of at least two elements.

Example:

For arr = [9, 8, 7, 6, 5], the output should be solution(arr) = 4.
Since all the elements are arranged in decreasing order, it won't be possible to form any sawtooth subarrays of length 3 or more. There are 4 possible subarrays containing two elements, so the answer is 4.

For arr = [10, 10, 10], the output should be solution(arr) = 0.
Since all of the elements are equal, none of subarrays can be sawtooth, so the answer is 0.

For arr = [1, 2, 1, 2, 1], the output should be solution(arr) = 10.
All contiguous subarrays containing at least two elements satisfy the condition of problem. There are 10 possible contiguous subarrays containing at least two elements, so the answer is 10.